---
widget: blank
active: true
headless: true
weight: 20
title: About VXML
columns: 2
---
The PIMS Virtual Experimental Math Lab (VXML) program brings together
world-leading faculty members, postdocs, graduate students and undergraduate
students to work on exciting research problems in mathematics. Project teams
from throughout the PIMS network work together to tackle challenging research
problems through experimental, computational and visual mathematics, showcasing
mathematics as a creative discipline.

### How it works...
Research problems are proposed by a faculty member or postdoc at a PIMS member
(or affilate member) university, and a project team consisting of the mentor, a
graduate student and 2-4 undergraduate students are formed to work on the
problem. The team commits 6-8 hours per week to work on the project and to meet
to discuss their discoveries. Students will use a mixture of computational tools
such as [CoCalc (Sage Math Cloud)](https://cocalc.com/), to work and
collaborate.

At the end of the year, we arrange an open-house event where discoveries can be
showcased and any results presented. The laboratory is virtual so participants
can join from anywhere in the PIMS network of universities and the projects
focus on experimentation and discovery.


### About XML
The PIMS VXML builds on the success of the [Washington Experimental Mathematical
Laboratory](https://wxml.math.washington.edu) and similar initiatives at other
universities. In addition, the PIMS VXML leverages the distributed structure of
PIMS to bring together more dispersed and diverse groups to work on a broad
range of topics.

#### The Axioms of VXML
The VXML strongly believes in [Federico Ardila-Mantillaâ€™s
axioms <i class="fa-solid fa-file-pdf"></i>](http://math.sfsu.edu/federico/Articles/noticesfinal.pdf):

  * **Axiom 1**: Mathematical talent is distributed equally among different
    groups, irrespective of geographic, demographic, and economic boundaries.
  * **Axiom 2**: Everyone can have joyful, meaningful, and empowering
    mathematical experiences.
  * **Axiom 3**: Mathematics is a powerful, malleable tool that can be shaped
    and used differently by various communities to serve their needs.
  * **Axiom 4**: Every student deserves to be treated with dignity and respect.
