---
widget: blank
active: true
headless: true
weight: 40
title: Get Involved
---

To get involved in the XML program as a participant, please select one of the
local sites below.  Each XML organizes it's own call for projects and
participants so deadlines may vary.

  * [WXML at the University of Washington <i class="fa fa-external-link"></i>](https://wxml.math.washington.edu/)
  * [MXML at the University of
    Manitoba <i class="fa fa-external-link"></i>](https://sites.google.com/view/mxml/home)
  * [QuantTA at the University of
    Saskatchewan <i class="fa fa-external-link"></i>](https://artsandscience.usask.ca/quanta/)


PIMS is currently working to expand this list of local XML sites. If you are a
faculty member at a [PIMS member institution <i class="fa
fa-external-link"></i>](https://www.pims.math.ca/pims-sites) who is interested
in starting an XML, please see the "Coordinator Responsibilities" below for
more details of what is involved. PIMS may be able to offer (limited) financial
and administrative support to get your lab started. An application form for new
XML will soon be available, but in the meantime, please [contact us](#contact)
if you would like to start a new lab.


### XML Coordinator Responsibilities
As an XML lab coordinator, you will be responsible for soliciting and selecting
new XML projects from postdocs at your site each year. This is typically done in
the weeks before the start of the fall term, so that you can start advertising
the selected projects to undergraduate students at the beginning of term.

Once students start applying, you will need to assign them to projects, matching
their skills and attributes with the needs of the project to build effective
teams. Next you will need to arrange a kick off meeting three or four weeks into
the term, to set expectations for all participants and to connect the groups
with any resources you can offer them (e.g. computational resources).

Throughout the term, you should stay in close contact with the project mentors
to help them address any challenges they are facing and to make sure they have
realistic goals and a good chance of achieving them. You may wish to organize
periodic check-in meetings to stay on top of this.

Two or three months before the end of the academic year, you should contact all
of the project members to arrange a wrap-up meeting. This meeting is typically
held at the end of the term, and can be tricky to schedule with the exams and
other responsibilities the students have. At the wrap up meeting, students
should present their work to all of the XML members for feedback. Finally, a
written report should be prepared by the students a few weeks after the end of
term.

