---
title: "Information for Participants"
date: 2023-02-27T16:19:50-08:00
draft: false
---

At the end each iteration of the VXML program, the undergraduate participants
should complete a poster, a written report, and give a talk about their
VXML project. The talk will be given to the other VXML participants at a "Wrap
Up" meeting to be held in early April. Details of each of these requirements can
be found below.

## Talk
At the "Wrap-Up" meeting, each group will be asked to give a 10 minute talk on
their work.  There will be 2-3 minutes after each talk for questions. The talk
should be aimed at a general audience. It should introduce your project then
cover the details of what you worked on and accomplished. The presentations
should be given by the undergraduate members of your group and, ideally, each
member of the group should have an opportunity to speak. We recommend practicing
within your group _before_ the Wrap-Up meeting.


## Poster
Each group should produce a poster about their VXML project. The poster should
be a large-format, single page PDF document. It should give a brief description
of the project, highlight the work you completed, give details of challenges you
faced, and discuss the techniques you used. Where possible, it should also include
any visualizations which are relevant to your project. Finally, it should
indicate any possible directions for future research.

The visual design of the poster is up to you, so be as creative as you want! The
content from the poster will be used to update the project descriptions on the
VXML website. You are free to use _any tools_ you like to produce the PDF.

If you are a $\LaTeX$ user, Overleaf has a [nice gallery of poster
templates](https://www.overleaf.com/gallery/tagged/poster) We have also prepared
a couple of templates for you:

  * [poster-1.pdf](./poster-1.pdf) - A simple Beamer based poster.
  * [poster-2.pdf](./poster-2.pdf) - N.B. This template requires the use of a
    recent/Lua based $\LaTeX$ installation

The source files for both of these posters are included in the [VXML template
library](./vxml-templates.zip).  You can see examples of posters from previous
successful VXML projects in the [past projects](/#past-projects) section.


## Final Report

Each group should collaborate to write a final report as a permanent record of
what they did during their VXML project.  A final (PDF) version will be linked
to your project on the VXML website.  Ideally the report should be written in
either [MarkDown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax) or
[LaTeX](https://www.latex-project.org/) format.

[LaTeX and Markdown templates](./vxml-templates.zip) are available to help you
format your report. Instructions for using these templates can be found in the
`README.md` documents in the download or you can [read them on
github](https://github.com/pimsmath/vxml-final-reports). The report should be 3
or more pages in length and should be written in the style of a scientific
article. You will be asked to submit the $\LaTeX$ or Markdown source of your
report along with a PDF version. You can see examples of final reports from
previous successful VXML projects in the [past-projects](/#past-projects)
section.

{{< cta cta_text="Download Templates" cta_link="vxml-templates.zip" >}}

